--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- World of Warcraft: Cataclysm Beta Patch Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Welcome to the World of Warcraft: Cataclysm beta test! Patch notes
listed here are not comprehensive and will be changed throughout the
testing process.

To leave feedback about your test experience, please visit our
Cataclysm Beta forums:
http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/index.html?sid=2000

You may need to clear your browser cookies and cache and log out of our
live forums
(http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/board.html?forumId=10001&sid=1) in
order to view the beta forums.

General

-  The Alliance starting experience for worgen is available. Venture
   through the cursed lands of Gilneas to discover your true path!
   Currently the female worgen character is not available for testing.
-  The Horde starting experience for goblins is available. Beginning on
   the Isle of Kezan in a goblin paradise, players will face a
   treacherous road ahead!
-  The level cap for all characters is 83.
-  Elements of the guild leveling, perks, and roster page are now
   functional. Players should once again be able to buy and register
   guild charters, which now only require five signatures. See the
   Known Issues section for issues associated with this new system.
-  Cataclysm Launcher Update
   The new Cataclysm Launcher allows you to stream game data while you
   play. This will reduce the time you spend downloading, installing,
   and patching World of Warcraft. We’d like to get your feedback on
   the toolset and gameplay experience. Please head to the forums here
   for additional information:
   http://forums.worldofwarcraft.com/thread.html?topicId=26262801168
   sid=2000
-  Players may use our Character Copy feature for copying existing
   characters to beta realms, or may choose from high-level pre-made
   template characters.

Zones

-  Mount Hyjal and Vashj'ir, two new level 80-82 zones, are available
   for testing. Deepholm, a new level 82-83 zone is available for
   testing. Players may find their way to these zones by speaking with
   temporary teleportation NPCs located in any major city.
-  The level ranges of Gilneas and the Lost Isles are in the process of
   being adjusted slightly. Creature, quest, and quest reward levels
   are all being altered so that players finish questing in these zones
   roughly by level 12. Further fine tuning will continue in future
   content updates.
-  Several zones have had quest maps integrated.
-  Eastern Kingdoms
   Arathi Highlands, Blasted Lands, The Cape of Stranglethorn, Dun
   Morogh, Duskwood, Eastern Plaguelands, Elwynn Forest, Hinterlands,
   Loch Modan, Northern, Stranglethorn, Northshire, Redridge Mountains,
   Silverpine Forest, Tirisfal Glades, Western Plaguelands and Westfall
   are available for testing.
-  Kalimdor
-  Most zones in Kalimdor are available for testing, though work
   continues on polishing the quest experience and flow, as well as
   zone aesthetics.

Dungeons & Raids

-  Blackrock Caverns, a new level 80-81 five-player dungeon, is
   available for testing.
-  The Stonecore, a new level 82-84 five-player dungeon, is available
   for testing.
-  Throne of the Tides, a new level 80-81 five-player dungeon, is
   available for testing.

Classes: General

-  All hunter and warlock pets have been deleted to address a data
   corruption issue. Hunters will need to tame new pets, while warlocks
   will notice the names of their pets have changed.
-  Ammo has been removed from the game.
-  The character levels at which classes gain new spells and abilities
   have changed.
-  The glyph system is in the process of being altered. Existing glyphs
   may not be fully supported or functional.
-  Many item and class stats have been changed or removed.
-  Rage has been normalized.
-  Spells and abilities no longer have multiple ranks and now scale
   with character level.
-  A first pass on new talent trees has been implemented.
   Each specialization has been reduced to a 31-point talent tree.
   Players will now get a total of 41 talent points to spend.
   31 points must be spent in the primary specialization tree before
   any points can be placed in additional trees.
   Players will be asked to choose a specialization at level 10. Doing
   so will result in the unlocking of a spell or ability unique to that
   specialization, as well as one or more passive bonuses.
   More information regarding our plans for talent trees can be found
   here:
   http://www.worldofwarcraft.com/info/underdev/4p0/classandmastery.xml

Death Knights

-  A dedicated tanking tree has been implemented.
-  The way in which runes recharge has changed.

Druids

-  A new Eclipse mechanic has been added for druids. The feature is
   functional, but the interface art is still a work in-progress.

Hunters

-  Five pets can now be stored with the hunter at all times. Any one of
   these five pets can be summoned via the Call Pet ability.
-  Focus has replaced mana as a new resource.
-  Hunters now start with a pet at level 1.
-  The Stable will now store 20 pets. If a pet is moved into the
   Stable, its talents are wiped.

Paladins

-  We are in the process of overhauling many paladin talents, spells
   and abilities. Expect updates in upcoming patches.

Warlocks

-  Soul Shards have been removed from the game as items. Instead, they
   now exist as a resource system necessary for using, or altering the
   mechanics of certain spells.

Professions

-  The Reforging interface has been implemented, however it may not
   currently be hooked up correctly to the corresponding NPCs.

User Interface

-  The ability to use third-party addons has been temporarily disabled
   for the test environment.
-  The Arena Teams pane has been improved.
-  Auto-quests have been added to the game. Players will automatically
   be given an auto-quest by entering specific areas in the game world.
   This alert will appear distinctly in the Objectives pane via the
   Advanced Quest Tracking feature. These quests will still be given to
   players with full Quest Logs, but will count toward the 25 total]
   allotted quests if the log is not full.
-  The Character pane has been redesigned. Character stats can now be
   shown or hidden via the Show All Details/Hide All Details button on
   the bottom left. When shown, all character stats will be visible in
   a window to the right of the pane. Stat sections can be reorganized
   by clicking and dragging them up or down the pane.
-  The Professions panes now have more filtering and search
   functionality, as well as buttons to easily link recipes in the chat
   frame.
-  A Professions screen has been added to the Spellbook to better
   display the details of a character’s primary and secondary
   professions.
-  Many of the yellow System Messages that would display in the chat
   frame when leveling up have been removed.
-  New text animations now alert players as they level up, also
   providing information on when new talents, spells and abilities are
   available.
-  Professions and Class Trainers windows have been altered to more
   clearly display available and upcoming purchases.
-  Raid frames are now available and have temporarily replaced the
   standard party frames so that players can test them.
-  The Spellbook interface has been improved for greater ease-of-use
   and visual appeal.

Graphics

-  Experimental support for DX11 (can be enabled by passing ‘-d3d11’ on
   the command line or adding SET gxApi "d3d11" to the Config.WTF file).
-  OpenGL Hardware Cursor support (can be enabled on the Video
   Resolution Panel).
-  Improved water and lava rendering system (enabled by the Liquid
   Detail slider on the Video Effects Panel)
   0 = Classic Water
   1 = New Water (fake reflections)
   2 = New Water (ocean has real reflection for terrain)
   These values are likely to change during Beta.
-  Dynamic Sunshafts effect (enabled by the Sunshafts option on the
   Video Effects Panel).

Known Issues

-  Sudden Death procs do not reset the cooldown of Colossus Smash.
-  Several cloaks are displayed incorrectly on draenei females.
-  Ground mounts can be used when underwater in Vashj'ir.
-  Corpses are not tapped on the quest "Free Your Mind" allowing other
   players to use the Sovereign Rod on targets they did not kill.
-  While on the quest "Blood and Thunder!" NPCs will despawn prior to
   the event and the quest cannot be completed.
-  Sound is cutting in and out during two segments of Mor'norokk's
   voiceover during the quest, "Some Spraining to Do".
-  Characters with two professions learned cannot train new spells.
-  The spell effect visuals for Healing Rain and Earthquake look
   awkward when cast on a staircase or a steep incline.
-  Guild control and guild banks are experiencing issues related to the
   new guild leveling interface and functionality. In addition, guild
   experience may not display properly when players change zones, and
   guild members will be demoted to the lowest guild rank when logging
   out.
-  Battleground queues are undergoing significant changes and are not
   currently operational.
-  Gnome and troll characters have a broken background displayed as
   well as a LUA error at the character selection and creation screens.
   Having either a gnome or troll character can cause newly created
   characters to not display on the character list until it is
   refreshed by logging out and back in, switching realms and then
   switch back, or logging into and back out of the realm.
-  Players are currently unable to create new worgen characters.
-  Selecting high Liquid Detail when using Geforce 6 & 7 series video
   cards will currently prevent lava and water from rendering properly.
   You can temporarily restore liquid to the world by reducing the
   Liquid Detail setting via the Video Effects Panel, or by typing
   “waterDetail 0” in your Config.WTF file.

Bug Fixes

-  Entering a phase with phased terrain (i.e. Rim of the World) no
   longer boots players from flying mounts.
-  Players are now able to receive Stoneskin Totem from shaman
   trainers.
-  The quest "Up the Volcano" can now be completed.
-  Characters now ride the Swift Seahorse for the quest "Waking the
   Beast."
-  The mob Tendril from Below should no longer fall below the world
   when killed.
-  Globe of Boiling Water should now drop from Scalding Water Lords for
   the quest "Full of Hot Water."
-  The quest "Blackfin's Booty" can be completed.
-  The quest "Offering to Azshara" can be completed.
-  The quest "Seeds of Discord" should reset properly.
-  The rug in Stormglen Inn is should no longer be experiencing
   z-fighting with the floor beneath it.
-  The fire damage from lava should no longer hit players at any
   height.
-  Trainers are functioning properly.
-  Selecting a character on the character select screen after creating
   a new one will no longer cause the game to display and act on the
   character two slots above the selected one.
